>> Hello and welcome to
the Haskell Weekly podcast.
This is a show about Haskell, a purely
functional programming language.
I'm your host Taylor Fausak.
I'm an engineer at ITProTV.
With me today is Cameron Gera,
one of the engineers on my team.
Thanks for joining me today, Cam.
>> Thanks for having me, Taylor, I
know we've missed a couple of weeks here,
so I'm excited for us to be back here,
recording some Haskell Weekly podcasts.
And, uh, You know, I think today
is just a really special day.
You know, I think last episode, we
kind of talked about asynchronous
exceptions and today we're going to
actually dive into the long lost brother
slash brother from another mother,
um, exception handling in Haskell.
And we're going to be talking
about exception handlers.
We're actually going to specifically
focus on a post by our near and
dear friend Taylor Fausak called
default exception handler in Haskell.
So really looking forward
to diving in today.
Thanks for having me on again, Taylor.
uh, what do you say?
We just kind of jump in and
we'll give a high level overview
of what kind of prompted this.
>> Sure it sounds good.
And I think this might be the
first time we're, uh, talking
about one of my own posts.
So this feels a little
weird, but let's do it.
Um, so as you mentioned previously, we
were talking about async exceptions and
this time around, we're talking about
exception handlers and in particular,
the default exception handler.
And I decided to write a
post about this because.
I knew about this concept from
other programming languages, where
you can put in an exception handler
that will get called if nothing
else handles that exception.
And for the longest time, I
thought that Haskell didn't have
this, but it turns out it does.
And it's had it for a long time,
but it's in, it's like squirreled
away in an internal GHC module
and it's not documented well.
So that's why I wrote this post.
And, uh, the motivation actually
was that we spawn threads
on our application at work.
And I was curious, are any
of those threads failing?
And are we like, do we
not know about that?
So if we had a default exception
handler, we could find out.
Um, so yeah, that's the motivation
and that's a big picture of
what we'll be talking about.
>> Nice.
Yeah, I think, um, you know, it's,
uh, interesting that this is a very,
not highly talked about subject.
Because in most programming
languages, they have that default
handler for these exceptions.
And it's generally a first class thing.
Um, because you need to know,
oh, if something breaks in
my code, how do I handle it?
Where for Haskell.
Most of the time people rely on
the compiler to say, oh yeah,
this is going to quote unquote
work as far as types lined up.
And then you have, you know, the runtime
environment, which gets kinda messy.
Because of like the unknown around
exceptions and the, more or less, mystery
for easily handling stuff with Haskell.
Um, and I, I think this brings great
light and could honestly be, be, uh,
what's the word I'm looking for here.
It could be the documentation for it.
>> Oh, there we go.
>> You know, this amazing
function that, uh, you gotta
tell us about what's this.
>> So, uh, yeah, to, to what you
said, I should probably open a pull
request against GHC to add documentation
to this function, or even export it
from somewhere more typical, like
control dot exception or system dot IO.
Um, but yeah, the, uh, the function
we're talking about is called
set uncaught exception handler.
And it's very well-named.
It does exactly what it
says based on the name.
Um, uh, but to the point you were
making about, um, you know, this
doesn't seem to come up that often
in Haskell, I was trying to puzzle
through why that may be the case.
And I think part of it is that often
you just like wrap your entire main
function in an exception handler,
and that will catch most things.
But if you spawn a thread and don't,
uh, wait for that thread to finish or
re throw its exceptions on your main
thread, then you're going to miss those.
And fortunately, we have the async
library that manages that for you.
And if you're using the async library
and using the helpers that it provides,
like race or concurrently, then this
probably isn't a problem for you, but
there's always a chance that you're,
depending on something that uses fork IO
and doesn't install an exception handler.
So maybe this just
doesn't come up that much.
Um, and for us, I said, I suspected
that this could be the case that
we had some uncaught exceptions.
Uh, and after installing this in our
application, it's not like we had
a deluge of new exception reports.
Um, so it seems like by and
large, we were handling this
correctly in the first place.
>> Right.
So this is kind of a thing you
wouldn't really know you're missing
until you'd installed it and found
out, Oh, look what I've been missing.
>> Right.
It's like, uh, if you just decided to
look through the logs one day, or you're
looking through for a different reason
and you see a bunch of exceptions in there
and you're like, wait, wait, hold on.
I'm not seeing these in our
exception reporting service.
Like we use Sentry, other people
use, you know, like Honeybadger
or Rollbar or whatever.
Um, You, you want all of your
exceptions to end up there because
if nothing is in there, then you
assume everything's going well.
But if you're spawning a thread and then
crashing, then, well, bad things are
happening and you don't know about it.
>> Right, right.
I feel like, you know, obviously
we've, we've had our fun with
the async exception stuff that we
previously touched on here at ITProTV.
The other thing I was thinking
that, you know, we don't.
Losing my train of thought.
That's what happens when I decided
to podcast and I'm a little tired.
yeah, no, I'm really, I really lost it.
I guess it's energy drink
really didn't do much for me.
>> Not enough energy in that drink.
Um, I'll, I'll try to connect the dots.
So on our last episode of the podcast,
which, uh, we're, we're trying to live
up to our name of doing weekly shows,
but you know, every other week, every
other other week, it's good enough.
Um, Last time around, we were talking
about async exceptions and those
are exceptions that another thread
throws into your thread or are thrown
from pure code that doesn't look
like it should throw exceptions.
And you still can use an exception
handler to deal with those, but you
need to make sure that the exception
handler is installed in a place where
it is actually wrapping around, uh,
where that exception will be thrown to.
Um, and so that's tricky and that's what
the async library takes care of for you.
So there is a little bit overlap with
what we're talking about this week and
what we talked about last time, but
they're kind of orthogonal concerns.
>> Like I said,
brother from another mother.
>> Exactly.
Yeah, well said.
Um, so yeah, I guess, uh, I should dig
into what is set uncaught exception
handler and how do you use it?
Um, and for that.
So like I said, it's very well named, uh,
even though it doesn't have documentation,
it says exactly what it's going to do.
If there is an exception that is
uncaught, this is the thing that'll
be called, regardless of which
thread, um, it was thrown from.
And the exception handler you install,
uh, takes as its argument, some
exception, which is or wrapper, huh?
Oh, no way.
Yeah.
Who knew?
Some exception, which is a
wrapper around any exception.
Uh, and then you just return IO.
So the default is to print out the
exception using the show instance,
which is a little surprising.
And in fact, it's the only
reason I found out about this.
Was, uh, someone from Serokell wrote
a blog post about changing the default
exception handler to use the display
exception method rather than show,
because a lot of exception types
use a derived show instance, but
then have a fancy display exception.
So why not use that?
And it turns out you can use the
same mechanism, uh, to like send the
exception report to Sentry, like I
mentioned, or if you want to like, you
know, throw it into a database or, you
know, literally do anything with it.
>> You've got options.
>> Um,
>> Cause we're in the IO
monad, which is pretty helpful.
>> Yeah, so yeah,
IO, you can do anything.
And I had some questions when I was
first looking at this, because if you're
handling an uncaught exception, clearly
something has gone wrong and your program
is probably about to crash anyway.
So I was curious, like, What happens
if an exception gets thrown from
within your exception handler?
Or if you take 30 minutes to handle it?
Or you, you know, go
into an infinite loop?
Something like that.
Um, and the answer to basically all
the, all of those questions is: it
behaves pretty much like normal code.
Um, if you throw an exception
from your uncaught exception
handler, it will then be caught by
your uncaught exception handler.
So it's pretty easy to
get in a loop there.
And I would strongly suggest not throwing
exceptions from your exception handler,
>> Seems like a reasonable thing.
I mean, if you throw it from the exception
handler, who's going to handle it.
Right?
I mean, that's where it's supposed to end.
It's not supposed to
>> right?
>> continually cycle and loop.
>> Um, so that being said,
it's not always practical to avoid
throwing exceptions from your exception
handler, especially if you want
to report to an external service.
What if that service is down,
you might throw an exception.
Um, so there's actually a
different function called get
uncaught exception handler.
And so you can use that to grab the
original handler or the one that was
there before you want to change it.
And then you install yours, but you
wrap yours in the original handler.
So there's something goes
wrong with your custom one.
You fall way back to the original
default one and just use that.
So that's what I would suggest doing.
Um, if you're, if you're looking
at doing this, uh, I have
that suggestion in the post.
You want to like grab the original
handler and then set the new
one and handle exceptions in
the new one with the old one?
>> Yep, awesome.
Yeah.
Well, I think, is there any, like,
you've already kind of mentioned, don't
fail within your exception handler.
It could be bad.
We have some thunder here
in beautiful Florida.
So if you hear that in the rumble of the
background, um, yeah, it's what it is.
It's not uh Taylor's belly,
even though some may say it is.
Uh, all right guys.
Well, I think really Taylor that's a
good synopsis of what is covered here.
Is there anything else
that you want to touch on?
>> I think that's it.
Uh, I feel a little weird
devoting a whole podcast to this
because it's such a short topic.
Really, it gets down to there's
this function that exists.
And if you're writing an application,
you should probably call it, uh,
so that if you do have an uncaught
exception, you'll know about it.
Um, but again, I felt motivated to
write a blog post for it because
I hadn't heard of it before.
And it's not very well-documented.
So I just wanted to
get the word out there.
So if you're listening to this and
you write a Haskell application,
Check out the uncaught exception
handler and install it into your app.
>> Yep.
And who knows?
It could help you figure out, Oh, there's
some, some sort of issue you haven't
seen yet you haven't been aware of.
So, um, yeah, I think it's a
great little just, Hey, here
it is, tada, kind of thing.
>> Okay.
>> And for those who are interested.
Dive in deeper and see how that
could help you in your daily work
or if your side projects, whatever
you, however you use Haskell.
Um, or if you have a desire to
use Haskell, you can just create
a little simple app that installs
a default exception handler.
Why not,
>> Yeah.
Uh, and please, uh, don't complain
to me if you find out that your
code was actually failing all
along and you didn't know about it.
That's, uh, that's your problem?
Not mine.
>> A little harsh, but okay.
Okay.
>> No, I.
>> have the, you forgot
to catch the exception.
So.
>> true.
That's true.
Um, but yeah, I think, uh, that
will do it for us this week.
Uh, thank you for listening
to the Haskell Weekly podcast.
I have been your host Taylor Fausak,
and with me today was Cameron Gera.
If you want to find out more
about us, please check out our
website, HaskellWeekly.News.
If you liked the show.
Please rate and review
us wherever you found us.
And if you have any feedback for
us, you can tweet us @HaskellWeekly.
>> And we are brought
to you by our employer.
ITProTV an ACI learning company.
They would love to extend an offer
of 30% off the lifetime of your
subscription on our platform.
By using the promo code
HaskellWeekly30 at checkout, all
one word, it is cap sensitive.
So a capital H capital W and
everything else, lowercase.
And I think that about does it for us.
Thank you all for joining and
we'll see you next week on
the Haskell Weekly podcast
>> Bye.
>> Peace!